Sambla Group AS is a Swedish fintech company that offers comparison services and mediation of loans and insurance to consumers. Sambla Group was established in 2021, when Nordic Capital stepped in as the new main owner. Sambla and Digifinans are the largest brands in Sambla Group's portfolio in Norway. Digifinans became part of Sambla Group after the acquisition of Salus in 2022.

Sambla was founded in Sweden in 2014 and has since expanded to several northern European countries, including Norway. Sambla Group is now established in four Nordic markets. Sweden, Finland, Norway and Denmark. The company's head office is in Stockholm and is managed by Per Österström.

Sambla Group's main activity is loan brokerage. Samba Group works with a number of lenders and insurance companies to offer consumers a range of financial products.

As of 2023, Sambla Group has 6 brands in the Nordics that they manage, these include:
Sambla
Advisa
Digital finance
Omalaina
Rahalaitos
Rahoitu

History:

Sambla was founded in 2014 under the name Consida. In 2016, Consida was launched in Norway, where they changed their brand name to Sambla in 2017. Sambla then established itself in Finland and Denmark in 2020.

In 2021, Sambla merged with competitor Advisa and with Nordic Capital as the new main owner, Sambla was established under the name Sambla Group.

During 2021 and 2022, Sambla Group acquired the Finnish loan brokerage companies Rahalaitos, LVS Brokers and Salus.

Work Environment:

2022 Sambla Group was named 4th place as Sweden's best employer in the category "Small and medium-sized enterprises"

Acquisition:

Sambla, which in 2021 received Nordic Capital as its main owner, is now buying the loan broker Mymoney, which caters to car buyers. "A milestone," says CEO Per Österström.

In 2021, the competitors Sambla and Advisa merged with the venture capital company Nordic Capital as the main owner. Now Sambla Group is buying yet another competitor: Mymoney, which primarily mediates loans for car purchases. 

Sambla Group had a turnover of SEK 1.4 billion in 2022 and reported a positive operating profit of SEK 21 million, while Mymoney had a turnover of SEK 116 million in 2022 and reported a positive operating profit of SEK 51 million. 

"Mymoney will be a milestone in Sambla Group's mission to help more people improve their financial situation. Mymoney has established itself as a leading player when it comes to offering competitive and flexible loans for car purchases," says Per Österström, CEO of Sambla Group, in a press release.

"With Sambla Group's experience and with Nordic Capital as a strong owner, we will be able to reach our full potential and further accelerate our growth journey," says Klas-Johan Claesson, CEO of Mymoney.

In 2022, Sambla Group acquired the Finnish companies LVS Brokers Oy and Oy Salus Group. Mymoney also planned for an expansion in Finland, according to the financial statements for 2022. 
